179-interactiveproject
======================
The last week has been kind of rough work-wise, so getting everything together was kind of a challenge. I’d come up with the basic idea, to build something that’d let people warp sound by making sounds, a while before, but work in other classes kept me from actually getting started. I began working on it Monday, and I wasn’t really satisfied with what I ended up going to bed with. I’d found that warping the sound based on pitch was pretty difficult to do with my laptop’s internal microphone (lots of interference), so I’d decided to just change the sound’s speed based on amplitude. At this stage, the display looped an 11 second clip and played the intro to Chance the Rapper’s “Everybody’s Something” (sampled from Slum Village’s “Fall in Love”) and slowed it down or sped it up based on how loud the noises captured by the microphone were. The afternoon of the presentation, however, I decided to try playing the entire song unmodulated underneath the user-manipulated audio. I’d experimented with two other song clips the day before―cuts from Neon Indian’s “Laughing Gas” and Childish Gambino’s “III. urn” (which was the song I’d used in the visual music project), and ended up trying out a segment from the latter that’d caught my attention while I was working on the last assignment. I decided to change the modulation back to being pitch based, tried it out, and decided it was passable. It wasn’t until I presented it in class that I really got a chance to hear the end result in action, and I thought it sounded nice.

The idea to include a glitchy webcam image arose when I was thinking about ways to have the user switch camera angles. I’d originally wanted the user to indicate which position they wanted to view the scene from by holding some stylus near a certain corner of the screen, but that proved difficult and I was strapped for time, so I ended up just using the number pad. I still had some code for accessing the webcam in the Processing file, so I decided to try to make a sort of theater view using the webcam data. That became the flat plane that played the video for “Everybody’s Something”. I couldn’t figure out how to process the image and display it in 3D in time, so I decided to just throw up the glitchy webcam feed over the entire window at random intervals.
